>>> AND WE HAVE SOME BREAKING
>>> AND WE HAVE SOME BREAKING NEWS ON THE 2020 FRONT.
NEWS ON THE 2020 FRONT. OHIO SENATOR SHERROD BROWN HAS
OHIO SENATOR SHERROD BROWN HAS JUST ANNOUNCED HE WILL NOT RUN
JUST ANNOUNCED HE WILL NOT RUN FOR PRESIDENT.
FOR PRESIDENT. INSTEAD HE PLANS TO REMAIN IN
INSTEAD HE PLANS TO REMAIN IN THE SENATE.
THE SENATE. IS THAT ANOTHER SIGNAL JOE BIDEN
IS THAT ANOTHER SIGNAL JOE BIDEN IS ABOUT TO JUMP IN?
IS ABOUT TO JUMP IN? RON KLAIN, A FORMER SENIOR WHITE
RON KLAIN, A FORMER SENIOR WHITE HOUSE AIDE TO PRESIDENT PS OBAMA
HOUSE AIDE TO PRESIDENT PS OBAMA AND BILL CLINTON.
AND BILL CLINTON. RON KLAIN, YOU KNOW JOE BIDEN AS
RON KLAIN, YOU KNOW JOE BIDEN AS WELL AS ANYONE SITTING AT THIS
WELL AS ANYONE SITTING AT THIS TABLE.
TABLE. I’VE BEEN REPORTING THAT HE’S
I’VE BEEN REPORTING THAT HE’S GOING TO JUMP IN, MAYBE TRYING
GOING TO JUMP IN, MAYBE TRYING TO WAIT UNTIL APRIL.
TO WAIT UNTIL APRIL. SHERROD BROWN I THOUGHT WAS IN,
SHERROD BROWN I THOUGHT WAS IN, AND A LOT OF PEOPLE IN THE PARTY
AND A LOT OF PEOPLE IN THE PARTY THOUGHT HE WAS A BIG FACTOR
THOUGHT HE WAS A BIG FACTOR HERE.
HERE. >> SENATOR BROWN HAD DONE A LOT
>> SENATOR BROWN HAD DONE A LOT OF THINGS TO GET READY, BEING ON
OF THINGS TO GET READY, BEING ON THIS LISTENING TOUR, DIGNITY OF
THIS LISTENING TOUR, DIGNITY OF WORK TOUR.
WORK TOUR. HE WOULD HAVE BEEN A VERY
HE WOULD HAVE BEEN A VERY FORMIDABLE CANDIDATE HAD HE
FORMIDABLE CANDIDATE HAD HE CHOSEN TO RUN.
CHOSEN TO RUN. HE’S NOT RUNNING.
HE’S NOT RUNNING. ULTIMATELY VICE PRESIDENT BIDDEN
ULTIMATELY VICE PRESIDENT BIDDEN WILL
WILL BIDEN WILL DECIDE WHETHER THIS
BIDEN WILL DECIDE WHETHER THIS IS THE RIGHT THING FOR HIM AND
IS THE RIGHT THING FOR HIM AND THE COUNTRY AND HIS FAMILY.
THE COUNTRY AND HIS FAMILY. IT REMOVES ONE OTHER PERSON WHO
IT REMOVES ONE OTHER PERSON WHO WOULD HAVE BEEN A FORMIDABLE
WOULD HAVE BEEN A FORMIDABLE OPPONENT IN THIS RACE.
OPPONENT IN THIS RACE. >> HE SAID IN DELAWARE LAST WEEK
>> HE SAID IN DELAWARE LAST WEEK THAT HIS FAMILY HAD DECIDED THAT
THAT HIS FAMILY HAD DECIDED THAT THEY’RE READY, THEY’RE READY TO
THEY’RE READY, THEY’RE READY TO GO, THEY’RE READY TO TAKE
GO, THEY’RE READY TO TAKE WHATEVER THE BURDENS ARE AND
WHATEVER THE BURDENS ARE AND THERE ARE GOING TO BE PLENTY.
THERE ARE GOING TO BE PLENTY. JIM MESSINA, WE’VE SEEN MIKE
JIM MESSINA, WE’VE SEEN MIKE BLOOMBERG, ANOTHER CANDIDATE, A
BLOOMBERG, ANOTHER CANDIDATE, A BILLIONAIRE, SAYING YESTERDAY
BILLIONAIRE, SAYING YESTERDAY HE’LL PUT HIS MONEY WHERE HIS
HE’LL PUT HIS MONEY WHERE HIS MOUTH IS, PUT HIS MONEY INTO
MOUTH IS, PUT HIS MONEY INTO BATTLEGROUND STATES TO DEFEAT
BATTLEGROUND STATES TO DEFEAT THE PRESIDENT.
THE PRESIDENT. CAN WE SEE THIS AS ANOTHER
CAN WE SEE THIS AS ANOTHER SIGNAL THAT JOE BIDEN IS IN?
SIGNAL THAT JOE BIDEN IS IN? >> I THINK SO.
>> I THINK SO. RON CAN’T CELEBRATE ON NATIONAL
RON CAN’T CELEBRATE ON NATIONAL TV.
TV. JOE BIDEN WOULD HAVE THE SUPPORT
JOE BIDEN WOULD HAVE THE SUPPORT OF LABOR AS WOULD SHERROD BROWN.
OF LABOR AS WOULD SHERROD BROWN. THIS IS THE STATESMAN, MODERATE
THIS IS THE STATESMAN, MODERATE LANE.
LANE. BLOOMBERG’S ANNOUNCEMENT
BLOOMBERG’S ANNOUNCEMENT YESTERDAY WAS ONE OF THE MOST
YESTERDAY WAS ONE OF THE MOST SELFLESS THING I’VE SEEN IN
SELFLESS THING I’VE SEEN IN AMERICAN POLITICS.
AMERICAN POLITICS. THERE WAS A PATHWAY FOR HIM, AND
THERE WAS A PATHWAY FOR HIM, AND HE DECIDED TO SPEND HIS OWN
HE DECIDED TO SPEND HIS OWN MONEY TO DEFEAT DONALD TRUMP.
MONEY TO DEFEAT DONALD TRUMP. THAT’S ANOTHER VERY GOOD THING
THAT’S ANOTHER VERY GOOD THING IF YOU’RE JOE BIDEN.
IF YOU’RE JOE BIDEN. JOE BIDEN IS THE ONLY PERSON IN
JOE BIDEN IS THE ONLY PERSON IN THIS FIELD WHO CAN MAKE HIS OWN
THIS FIELD WHO CAN MAKE HIS OWN DECISION.
DECISION. THE OTHERS HAVE TO SAY, WHAT ARE
THE OTHERS HAVE TO SAY, WHAT ARE THE OTHER CANDIDATES, WHAT IS MY
THE OTHER CANDIDATES, WHAT IS MY LANE.
LANE. BIDEN CAN SIT BACK AND WAIT FOR
BIDEN CAN SIT BACK AND WAIT FOR THIS.
THIS. EVERYONE THINKS BIDEN IS
EVERYONE THINKS BIDEN IS RUNNING.
RUNNING. THE BIG UNKNOWN OUT THERE IS
THE BIG UNKNOWN OUT THERE IS BETO, WHAT’S BETO DOING.
BETO, WHAT’S BETO DOING. THAT’S THE OTHER THING PEOPLE
THAT’S THE OTHER THING PEOPLE ARE GOING TO FIND OUT,
ARE GOING TO FIND OUT, REPORTEDLY, NEXT WEEK.
REPORTEDLY, NEXT WEEK. >> AND PEOPLE LIKE ERIC
>> AND PEOPLE LIKE ERIC SWALWELL, OTHER YOUNG, YOUNGER,
SWALWELL, OTHER YOUNG, YOUNGER, MEMBERS OF CONGRESS WHO WANT TO
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS WHO WANT TO RUN, TALKING ABOUT RUNNING,
RUN, TALKING ABOUT RUNNING, LOOKING OVER THEIR SHOULDER
LOOKING OVER THEIR SHOULDER BECAUSE HIS VIRAL ABILITY.
BECAUSE HIS VIRAL ABILITY. >> IT’S TRUE, IN THE GRASSROOTS,
>> IT’S TRUE, IN THE GRASSROOTS, I NOW LIVE IN SAN FRANCISCO AND
I NOW LIVE IN SAN FRANCISCO AND THERE’S MORE BETO T-SHIRTS IN
THERE’S MORE BETO T-SHIRTS IN THE STREETS OF SAN FRANCISCO
THE STREETS OF SAN FRANCISCO THAN THERE IS 49ers T-SHIRTS.
THAN THERE IS 49ers T-SHIRTS. BETO IS A NATIONAL PHENOMENON
BETO IS A NATIONAL PHENOMENON WHO WILL TAKE SOME OXYGEN OUT OF
WHO WILL TAKE SOME OXYGEN OUT OF THE RACE.
THE RACE. >> LET’S TURN TO OUR TEXAN, OR
>> LET’S TURN TO OUR TEXAN, OR AT LEAST HE KNOWS TAS POLITICS
AT LEAST HE KNOWS TAS POLITICS VERY WELL.
VERY WELL. BETO O’ROURKE CAME CLOSE BUT
BETO O’ROURKE CAME CLOSE BUT DIDN’T SUCCEED IF DEFEATING, YOU
DIDN’T SUCCEED IF DEFEATING, YOU KNOW, TED CRUZ WHO YOU WORKED
KNOW, TED CRUZ WHO YOU WORKED FOR.
FOR. WHAT IS THE PHENOMENON THAT BETO
WHAT IS THE PHENOMENON THAT BETO O’ROURKE IS, CAN HE COMPETE WITH
O’ROURKE IS, CAN HE COMPETE WITH JOE BIDEN, KAMALA HARRIS, SOME
JOE BIDEN, KAMALA HARRIS, SOME OF THESE HIGH PROFILE, ELIZABETH
OF THESE HIGH PROFILE, ELIZABETH WARREN, BERNIE SANDERS?
WARREN, BERNIE SANDERS? >> I’M A LITTLE INTIMIDATED BY
>> I’M A LITTLE INTIMIDATED BY THE DEMOCRATIC EXPERTS AT THE
THE DEMOCRATIC EXPERTS AT THE TABLE, BUT THE WAY I SEE IT,
TABLE, BUT THE WAY I SEE IT, BETO DID ELECTRIFY THE
BETO DID ELECTRIFY THE PROGRESSIVE BASE.
PROGRESSIVE BASE. I THINK IT’S VERY FAVORABLE TO
I THINK IT’S VERY FAVORABLE TO JOE BIDEN, BECAUSE THE
JOE BIDEN, BECAUSE THE PROGRESSIVE LANE IS GETTING VERY
PROGRESSIVE LANE IS GETTING VERY CROWDED.
CROWDED. I THINK BETO COULD DOMINATE THE
I THINK BETO COULD DOMINATE THE PROGRESSIVE LANE, BUT IN THE
PROGRESSIVE LANE, BUT IN THE CLASSIC
CLASSIC ESTABLISHMENT/PROGRESSIVE RACE,
ESTABLISHMENT/PROGRESSIVE RACE, SOMEONE WILL EMERGE OUT OF THE
SOMEONE WILL EMERGE OUT OF THE PROGRESSIVE PART OF THE PARTY
PROGRESSIVE PART OF THE PARTY AND SOMEONE WILL EMERGE OUT OF
AND SOMEONE WILL EMERGE OUT OF THE ESTABLISHMENT PART OF THE
THE ESTABLISHMENT PART OF THE PARTY.
PARTY. WHAT FAVORS JOE BIDEN IS
WHAT FAVORS JOE BIDEN IS DEMOCRATS ARE ASKING THEMSELVES
DEMOCRATS ARE ASKING THEMSELVES WHO CAN BEAT DONALD TRUMP.
WHO CAN BEAT DONALD TRUMP. AND I THINK YOU HAVE A BETTER
AND I THINK YOU HAVE A BETTER CHANCE WITH A MORE MODERATE
CHANCE WITH A MORE MODERATE CANDIDATE, TOWARD THE CENTER, OF
CANDIDATE, TOWARD THE CENTER, OF PEELING OFF THE MIDDLE, AND SOME
PEELING OFF THE MIDDLE, AND SOME REPUBLICANS WHO DON’T WANT TO
REPUBLICANS WHO DON’T WANT TO VOTE FOR DONALD TRUMP, THEN YOU
VOTE FOR DONALD TRUMP, THEN YOU WOULD WITH A PROGRESSIVE.
WOULD WITH A PROGRESSIVE. >> YOU ALSO HAVE THE ABILITY OF
>> YOU ALSO HAVE THE ABILITY OF DEMOCRATS TO JUST KILL EACH
DEMOCRATS TO JUST KILL EACH OTHER OFF AND FIGHT AMONGST
OTHER OFF AND FIGHT AMONGST THEMSELVES.
THEMSELVES. DEMOCRATS COMPLAINING THAT JOE
DEMOCRATS COMPLAINING THAT JOE BIDEN SAID SOMETHING IN PASSING
BIDEN SAID SOMETHING IN PASSING AT THE MUNICH SECURITY
AT THE MUNICH SECURITY CONFERENCE ABOUT, YOU KNOW, HOW
CONFERENCE ABOUT, YOU KNOW, HOW MIKE PENCE IS A DECENT MAN OR A
MIKE PENCE IS A DECENT MAN OR A GOOD MAN.
GOOD MAN. THAT LIT UP THE INTERNET.
THAT LIT UP THE INTERNET. AND NOW YOU HAVE THE WHOLE ISSUE
AND NOW YOU HAVE THE WHOLE ISSUE IN THE DEMOCRATIC HOUSE CAUCUS
IN THE DEMOCRATIC HOUSE CAUCUS ABOUT WHAT TO DO ABOUT
ABOUT WHAT TO DO ABOUT CONGRESSWOMAN OMAR.
CONGRESSWOMAN OMAR. AND DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATES ARE
AND DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATES ARE COMING OUT, BERNIE SANDERS
COMING OUT, BERNIE SANDERS COMING OUT IN SUPPORT OF HER.
COMING OUT IN SUPPORT OF HER. IT’S ALREADY DIVIDING SOME OF
IT’S ALREADY DIVIDING SOME OF THE 2020 DEMOCRATS.
THE 2020 DEMOCRATS. >> LOOK, WE’RE DEMOCRATS, WE’RE
>> LOOK, WE’RE DEMOCRATS, WE’RE NOT AN ORGANIZED POLITICAL
NOT AN ORGANIZED POLITICAL PARTY, AS WILL ROGERS FAMOUSLY
PARTY, AS WILL ROGERS FAMOUSLY SAID.
SAID. IF HE CHOOSES TO RUN, AND HE’LL
IF HE CHOOSES TO RUN, AND HE’LL MAKE THAT CHOICE WHEN HE MAKES
MAKE THAT CHOICE WHEN HE MAKES IT, VICE PRESIDENT BIDEN IS IN
IT, VICE PRESIDENT BIDEN IS IN UNIQUE POSITION TO UNITE THE
UNIQUE POSITION TO UNITE THE DEMOCRAT PARTY.
DEMOCRAT PARTY. I SAW A POLL THAT SAID THE
I SAW A POLL THAT SAID THE DEMOCRATS ARE DIVIDED AMONG A
DEMOCRATS ARE DIVIDED AMONG A LOT OF LABELS BUT THE ONE LABEL
LOT OF LABELS BUT THE ONE LABEL THAT UNITED THE PARTY WAS OBAMA
THAT UNITED THE PARTY WAS OBAMA DEMOCRATS.
DEMOCRATS. THIS IS A PARTY THAT STILL
THIS IS A PARTY THAT STILL BELIEVES WE HAD EIGHT GREAT
BELIEVES WE HAD EIGHT GREAT YEARS IN THE WHITE HOUSE OF
YEARS IN THE WHITE HOUSE OF ACTION ON HEALTH CARE, ON THE
ACTION ON HEALTH CARE, ON THE ECONOMY, ON SOCIAL ISSUES, ON
ECONOMY, ON SOCIAL ISSUES, ON FOREIGN POLICY ISSUES.
FOREIGN POLICY ISSUES. THE CO-ARCHITECT OF THAT ERA,
THE CO-ARCHITECT OF THAT ERA, THE PERSON THAT WAS AT THE SIDE
THE PERSON THAT WAS AT THE SIDE OF THE PRESIDENT DOING THAT, IS
OF THE PRESIDENT DOING THAT, IS JOE BIDEN.
JOE BIDEN. I THINK HE BRINGS THAT LEGACY TO
I THINK HE BRINGS THAT LEGACY TO THE RACE AND THE OPPORTUNITY TO
THE RACE AND THE OPPORTUNITY TO EMBRACE A LARGE SWATH OF PEOPLE,
EMBRACE A LARGE SWATH OF PEOPLE, PROGRESSIVES AND MODERATES,
PROGRESSIVES AND MODERATES, PEOPLE OF ALL RACES, ALL PARTS
PEOPLE OF ALL RACES, ALL PARTS OF OUR PARTY.
OF OUR PARTY. HE’S THE ONE CANDIDATE WHO CAN
HE’S THE ONE CANDIDATE WHO CAN PUT THAT ALL TOGETHER IF HE
PUT THAT ALL TOGETHER IF HE CHOOSES TO RUN.
CHOOSES TO RUN. >> WHAT ABOUT THE AGE FACTOR
>> WHAT ABOUT THE AGE FACTOR WHICH DID COME UP IN OUR NBC
WHICH DID COME UP IN OUR NBC NEWS/"WALL STREET JOURNAL" POLL,
NEWS/"WALL STREET JOURNAL" POLL, YOU’VE GOT ELIZABETH WARREN,
YOU’VE GOT ELIZABETH WARREN, BERNIE SANDERS, JOE BIDEN, IN
BERNIE SANDERS, JOE BIDEN, IN ONE GROUP, IF YOU WILL, AND SOME
ONE GROUP, IF YOU WILL, AND SOME OF THE OTHERS WHO ARE FAR
OF THE OTHERS WHO ARE FAR YOUNGER.
YOUNGER. >> I THINK IT’S A REAL ISSUE.
>> I THINK IT’S A REAL ISSUE. BUT I WANT TO GO BACK TO RICK’S
BUT I WANT TO GO BACK TO RICK’S POINT.
POINT. 61% OF DEMOCRATS SAY THE MOST
61% OF DEMOCRATS SAY THE MOST IMPORTANT ISSUE IN THE
IMPORTANT ISSUE IN THE DEMOCRATIC PRIMARY IS WHO CAN
DEMOCRATIC PRIMARY IS WHO CAN BEAT DONALD TRUMP.
BEAT DONALD TRUMP. DONALD TRUMP UNIFIES THE
DONALD TRUMP UNIFIES THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY.
DEMOCRATIC PARTY. IN 2008, BARACK OBAMA BEAT
IN 2008, BARACK OBAMA BEAT HILLARY CLINTON ON THE VERY LAST
HILLARY CLINTON ON THE VERY LAST DAY OF THE VERY LAST PARTY AND
DAY OF THE VERY LAST PARTY AND WE ALL CAME TOGETHER AND WON THE
WE ALL CAME TOGETHER AND WON THE GENERAL ELECTION.
GENERAL ELECTION. I’M NOT WORRYING ABOUT UNIFYING
I’M NOT WORRYING ABOUT UNIFYING THE PARTY.
THE PARTY. I’M WORRIED ABOUT SOMEONE
I’M WORRIED ABOUT SOMEONE STANDING UP TO DONALD TRUMP.
STANDING UP TO DONALD TRUMP. THAT’S WHY I’M LOOKING TO JOE
THAT’S WHY I’M LOOKING TO JOE BIDEN TO DO THAT.
BIDEN TO DO THAT. ON THE AGE ISSUE, THE BIGGEST,
ON THE AGE ISSUE, THE BIGGEST, TOP PEOPLE IN THIS PRIMARY ARE
TOP PEOPLE IN THIS PRIMARY ARE OVER 70 YEARS OLD AND THAT
OVER 70 YEARS OLD AND THAT CONTRAST FOR BETO IS PRETTY
CONTRAST FOR BETO IS PRETTY INTERESTING AND THAT WILL HELP
INTERESTING AND THAT WILL HELP HIM, OBVIOUSLY.
HIM, OBVIOUSLY. VICE PRESIDENT BIDEN HAS THE
VICE PRESIDENT BIDEN HAS THE OBAMA LEGACY TO HELP HIM.
OBAMA LEGACY TO HELP HIM. >> I DON’T THINK BIDEN WOULD